=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::LWPutil - LWP helper routines

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::LWPutil
   is a Exporter

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item B<lwp_action_from_header>(REQUEST)

Collect the soap action URI from the request, with C<undef> on failure.
Officially, the "SOAPAction" has no other purpose than the ability to
route messages over HTTP: it should not be linked to the portname of
the message (although it often can).

=item B<lwp_add_header>(FIELD, CONTENT, ...)

=item B<lwp_handle_connection>(CONNECTION, OPTIONS)

=item B<lwp_make_response>(REQUEST, RC, MSG, BODY)

=item B<lwp_run_request>(REQUEST, HANDLER, [CONNECTION])

Handle one REQUEST (HTTP::Request object), which was received from
the CLIENT (string).  When the request has been received, the HANDLER
is called. With that result, a response message is composed.

=item B<lwp_wsdl_response>([WSDLFILE|RESPONSE])

Set the result of WSDL query responses, either to a response which
is created internally containing WSDLFILE, or to an already complete
RESPONSE object (HTTP::Response).  The response object is returned.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP-Daemon distribution version 3.00,
built on April 15, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Other distributions in this suite:
L<XML::Compile>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP12>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS>,
L<XML::Compile::Tester>,
L<XML::Compile::Cache>,
L<XML::Compile::Dumper>,
L<XML::Compile::RPC>,
L<XML::Rewrite>,
L<XML::eXistDB>,
and
L<XML::LibXML::Simple>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile>
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

